# Inspiration does not mean Instantiation

An idea may be inspired by other popular ideas. This might mean that it
takes some parts of the previous ideas and modifies them. This is what
derivation means. 

The distinction that I want to create here is that a derived work is
a distinct entity, and so not an *instantiation* of the previous idea.
This idea applies to ideas that get inspired by old ideas and adapt
these old ideas to newer technologies. 

Many a times, derivative ideas that are heavily inspired by or proclaim
to be an extension of a popular idea often act as if they are an
instantiation of the previous idea by inheriting the same name as the
older, already popular idea. While this helps in making it clear that
the new idea is a mere extension of the older one, it also risks in
diluting the original idea such that the new idea starts to steal the
identity of the older one.

People who come across the newer version of the idea before having
understood the older version often mistake the newer version to be the
original. This is a problem if the newer idea is a misinterpretation of
the older one and looses the essence of the idea. 

Thus in my opinion, newer ideas based on older ones should not act like
they are an instantiation of the older one if they actually extend or
reinterpret the older idea in any way. The idea should take a new name
in order to distinguish itself from the older one, so that the integrity
of the older idea is not disturbed and the merits and demerits of the
newer idea can be analysed separately.

This applies to why I chose to not call my collection of notes `Zettelkasten`,
even though it is in every respect an adaptation of the original with
modern technology, with aspects that reflect my own conveniences and
philosophy.
